db2
===============================================================================

This role creates a Db2 Warehouse instance using the Db2u Operator. A namespace called `db2u` will be created and the db2u operator will be installed into the `ibm-common-services` namespace to service the `db2ucluster` requests in `db2u` namespace. A private root CA certificate is created and is used to secure the TLS connections to the database. A Db2 Warehouse cluster will be created along with a public TLS encrypted route to allow external access to the cluster (access is via the ssl-server nodeport port on the *-db2u-engn-svc service). Internal access is via the *-db2u-engn-svc service and port 50001. Both the external route and the internal service use the same server certificate.

The private root CA certificate and the server certificate are available from the `db2u-ca` and `db2u-certificate` secrets in the `db2u` namespace.  The default user is `db2inst1` and the password is available in the `instancepassword` secret in the same namespace.  You can examine the deployed resources in the `db2u` namespace:

```bash
oc -n db2u get db2ucluster

NAME        STATE   MAINTENANCESTATE   AGE
db2u-db01   Ready   None               29m
```

It typically takes 20-30 minutes from the db2ucluster being created till it is ready. If the db2ucluster is not ready after that period then check that all the PersistentVolumeClaims in the `db2u` namespace are ready and that the pods in the namespace are not stuck in init state. If the `c-<db2_instance_name>-db2u-0` pod is running then you can exec into the pod and check the `/var/log/db2u.log` for any issue.

If the `mas_instance_id` and `mas_config_dir` are provided then the role will generate the JdbcCfg yaml that can be used to configure MAS to connect to this database. It does not apply the yaml to the cluster but does provide you with the yaml files to apply if needed.


Role Variables - Installation
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
### db2_namespace
Name of the namespace where Db2 clusters will be created

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_NAMESPACE`
- Default: `db2u`

### db2_channel
The subscription channel for the DB2 Universal Operator.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_CHANNEL`
- Default: The default channel, as defined in the operator package, will be used if this is not set.

### db2_instance_name
Name of the database instance, note that this is the instance **name**.

- **Required**
- Environment Variable: `DB2_INSTANCE_NAME`
- Default: None

### ibm_entitlement_key
Provide your [IBM entitlement key](https://myibm.ibm.com/products-services/containerlibrary).

- **Required**
- Environment Variable: `IBM_ENTITLEMENT_KEY`
- Default: None

### db2_dbname
Name of the database within the instance.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_DBNAME`
- Default: `BLUDB`

### db2_version
Version of the DB2U operator instance to be created.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_VERSION`
- Default: `11.5.7.0-cn2`

### db2_4k_device_support
Whether 4K device support is turned on or not.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_4K_DEVICE_SUPPORT`
- Default: `ON`

### db2_workload
The workload profile of the db2 instance, possible values are `PUREDATA_OLAP` or `ANALYTICS`.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_WORKLOAD`
- Default: `ANALYTICS`

### db2_table_org
The way database tables will be organized. It can be set to either `ROW` or `COLUMN`.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_TABLE_ORG`
- Default: `ROW`

### db2_ldap_username
Define the username of db2 in the local LDAP registry. If this is defined, the LDAP user will be the user identity passed into the MAS JDBC configuration.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_LDAP_USERNAME`
- Default: None

### db2_ldap_password
Define the password of above db2 user in the local LDAP registry. Must define when `db2_ldap_username` is used.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_LDAP_PASSWORD`
- Default: None

### db2_rotate_password
Determines if the role should rotate the LDAP password for current LDAP user configured within Db2 for MAS. When using this capability, LDAP user password will auto generated by this role and configured with MAS.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_LDAP_ROTATE_PASSWORD`
- Default: False


Role Variables - Storage
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
### db2_meta_storage_class
Storage class used for metadata. This must support ReadWriteMany

- **Required**
- Environment Variable: `DB2_META_STORAGE_CLASS`
- Default: Defaults to `ibmc-file-gold` if the storage class is available in the cluster.

### db2_meta_storage_size
Size of the metadata persistent volume, in gigabytes

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_META_STORAGE_SIZE`
- Default: `20Gi`

### db2_meta_storage_accessmode
The access mode for the storage.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_META_STORAGE_ACCESSMODE`
- Default: `ReadWriteMany`

### db2_data_storage_class
Storage class used for user data. This must support ReadWriteOnce

- **Required**
- Environment Variable: `DB2_DATA_STORAGE_CLASS`
- Default: Defaults to `ibmc-block-gold` if the storage class is available in the cluster.

### db2_data_storage_size
Size of data persistent volume.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_DATA_STORAGE_SIZE`
- Default: `100Gi`

### db2_data_storage_accessmode
The access mode for the storage.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_DATA_STORAGE_ACCESSMODE`
- Default: `ReadWriteOnce`

### db2_backup_storage_class
Storage class used for backup. This must support ReadWriteMany

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_BACKUP_STORAGE_CLASS`
- Default: Defaults to `ibmc-file-gold` if the storage class is available in the cluster.

### db2_backup_storage_size
Size of backup persistent volume.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_BACKUP_STORAGE_SIZE`
- Default: `100Gi`

### db2_backup_storage_accessmode
The access mode for the storage.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_BACKUP_STORAGE_ACCESSMODE`
- Default: `ReadWriteMany`

### db2_logs_storage_class
Storage class used for transaction logs. This must support ReadWriteOnce

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_LOGS_STORAGE_CLASS`
- Default: Defaults to `ibmc-block-gold` if the storage class is available in the cluster.

### db2_logs_storage_size
Size of transaction logs persistent volume.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_LOGS_STORAGE_SIZE`
- Default: `100Gi`

### db2_logs_storage_accessmode
The access mode for the storage.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_LOGS_STORAGE_ACCESSMODE`
- Default: `ReadWriteOnce`

### db2_temp_storage_class
Storage class used for temporary data. This must support ReadWriteOnce

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_TEMP_STORAGE_CLASS`
- Default: Defaults to `ibmc-block-gold` if the storage class is available in the cluster.

### db2_temp_storage_size
Size of temporary persistent volume.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_TEMP_STORAGE_SIZE`
- Default: `100Gi`

### db2_temp_storage_accessmode
The access mode for the storage.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_TEMP_STORAGE_ACCESSMODE`
- Default: `ReadWriteOnce`


Role Variables - Resource Requests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
These variables allow you to customize the resources available to the Db2 pod in your cluster.  In most circumstances you will want to set these properties because it's impossible for us to provide a default value that will be appropriate for all users.  We have set defaults that are suitable for deploying Db2 onto a dedicated worker node with 4cpu and 16gb memory.

!!! tip
    Note that you must take into account the system overhead on any given node when setting these parameters, if you set the requests equal to the number of CPU or amount of memory on yournode then the scheduler will not be able to schedule the Db2 pod because not 100% of the worker nodes' resource will be available to pod on that node, even if there's only a single pod on it.

    Db2 is sensitive to both CPU and memory issues, particularly memory, we recommennd setting requests and limits to the same values, ensuring the scheduler always reserves the resources that Db2 expects to be available to it.

### db2_cpu_requests
Define the Kubernetes CPU request for the Db2 pod.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_CPU_REQUESTS`
- Default: `4000m`

### db2_cpu_limits
Define the Kubernetes CPU limit for the Db2 pod.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_CPU_LIMITS`
- Default: `6000m`

### db2_memory_requests
Define the Kubernetes memory request for the Db2 pod.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_MEMORY_REQUESTS`
- Default: `8Gi`

### db2_memory_limits
Define the Kubernetes memory limit for the Db2 pod.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_MEMORY_LIMITS`
- Default: `16Gi`


Role Variables - Node Label Affinity
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Specify both `db2_affinity_key` and `db2_affinity_value` to configure `requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution` affinity with appropriately labelled nodes.

### db2_affinity_key
Specify the key of a node label to declare affinity with.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_AFFINITY_KEY`
- Default: None

### db2_affinity_value
Specify the value of a node label to declare affinity with.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_AFFINITY_VALUE`
- Default: None


Role Variables - Node Taint Toleration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Specify `db2_tolerate_key`, `db2_tolerate_value`, and `db2_tolerate_effect` to configure a toleration policy to allow the db2 instance to be scheduled on nodes with the specified taint.

### db2_tolerate_key
Specify the key of the taint that is to be tolerated.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_TOLERATE_KEY`
- Default: None

### db2_tolerate_value
Specify the value of the taint that is to be tolerated.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_TOLERATE_VALUE`
- Default: None

### db2_tolerate_effect
Specify the type of taint effect that will be tolerated (`NoSchedule`, `PreferNoSchedule`, or `NoExecute`).

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_TOLERATE_EFFECT`
- Default: None


Role Variables - DB2UCluster Database Configuration Settings
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following variables will overwrite DB2UCluster default properties for the DB2 configuration sections:

- `spec.environment.database.dbConfig`
- `spec.environment.instance.dbmConfig`
- `spec.environment.instance.registry`

### db2_database_db_config
Overwrites the db2ucluster database configuration settings under `spec.environment.database.dbConfig` section.
- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_DATABASE_DB_CONFIG`
- Default: None

### db2_instance_dbm_config
Overwrites the db2ucluster instance database configuration settings under `spec.environment.instance.dbmConfig` section.

!!! important
    Do not set [instance_memory](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/db2/11.5?topic=parameters-instance-memory-instance-memory).  The Db2 engine does not know Db2 is running inside a container, setting `dbmConfig.INSTANCE_MEMORY: automatic` will cause it to read the cgroups of the node and potentially go beyond the pod memory limit.  Db2U has logic built in to use a normalized percentage that takes into account the memory limit and free memory of the node.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_INSTANCE_DBM_CONFIG`
- Default: None

### db2_instance_registry
Overwrites the db2ucluster instance database configuration settings under `spec.environment.instance.registry` section.
You can define parameters to be included in this section using semicolon separated values.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `DB2_INSTANCE_REGISTRY`
- Default: None


Role Variables - MPP System
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
!!! warning
    Do not use these variables if you intend to use the Db2 instance with IBM Maximo Application Suite; no MAS application supports Db2 MPP

### db2_mln_count
The number of logical nodes (i.e. database partitions to create). Note: ensure that the application using this Db2 can support Db2 MPP (which is created when `DB2_MLN_COUNT` is greater than 1).

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `'DB2_MLN_COUNT`
- Default: 1

### db2_num_pods
The number of Db2 pods to create in the instance. Note that `db2_num_pods` must be less than or equal to `db2_mln_count`.  A single db2u pod can contain multiple logical nodes. So be sure to avoid specifying a large number for `db2_mln_count` while specifying a small number for `db2_num_pods`. If in doubt, make `db2_mln_count = db2_num_pods`. For more information refer to the [Db2 documentation](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/db2-warehouse?topic=SSCJDQ/com.ibm.swg.im.dashdb.ucontainer.doc/doc/db2w-mempernode-new.html).

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `'DB2_NUM_PODS`
- Default: 1



Role Variables - MAS Configuration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
### mas_instance_id
Providing this and `mas_config_dir` will instruct the role to generate a JdbcCfg template that can be used to configure MAS to connect to this database.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `MAS_INSTANCE_ID`
- Default: None

### mas_config_dir
Providing this and `mas_instance_id` will instruct the role to generate a JdbcCfg template that can be used to configure MAS to connect to this database.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `MAS_CONFIG_DIR`
- Default: None

### mas_config_scope
Supported values are `system`, `ws`, `app`, or `wsapp`, this is only used when both `mas_config_dir` and `mas_instance_id` are set.

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `MAS_CONFIG_SCOPE`
- Default: `system`

### mas_workspace_id
This is only used when both `mas_config_dir` and `mas_instance_id` are set, and `mas_config_scope` is set to either `ws` or `wsapp`

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `MAS_WORKSPACE_ID`
- Default: None

### mas_application_id
This is only used when both `mas_config_dir` and `mas_instance_id` are set, and `mas_config_scope` is set to either `app` or `wsapp`

- Optional
- Environment Variable: `'MAS_APP_ID`
- Default: None


Example Playbook
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

```yaml
- hosts: localhost
  any_errors_fatal: true
  vars:
    ibm_entitlement_key: xxxxx

    # Configuration for the Db2 cluster
    db2_instance_name: db2u-db01

    db2_meta_storage_class: "ibmc-file-gold"
    db2_data_storage_class: "ibmc-block-gold"
    db2_backup_storage_class: "ibmc-file-gold"
    db2_logs_storage_class: "ibmc-block-gold"
    db2_temp_storage_class: "ibmc-block-gold"

    # Create the MAS JdbcCfg & Secret resource definitions
    mas_instance_id: inst1
    mas_config_dir: /home/david/masconfig
  roles:
    - ibm.mas_devops.db2
```

License
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

EPL-2.0
